{{{ "title"    : "The Open Source Funeral", "tags"     : [ "technology",
"musings" ], "category" : "technology", "date"     : "1-13-2014" }}}

It's been far too long since I've written a blog post. The year's even changed
since my last one, though I suppose the same could be said for one written mere
minutes away from the mark of midnight, but I digress. Today, I'm looking at a
concept I'm calling the Open Source Funeral. This post was sparked by one of the
most tragic events the world has ever seen. The loss of the brilliant Aaron
Swartz, who took his own life just over a year ago. However, his death isn't the
real catalyst for this post, but rather the online memorial to him that came
afterwards. This memorial was remarkable. It wasn't a select few people speaking
in an ephemeral context about a great man, this was hundreds, perhaps thousands
of people, modifying this site. Adding their memories, their experiences, the
experiences they wished they'd had to a beautiful forum bidding adieu to one of
the greatest minds the world has ever seen.

The thing about this is that everyone could attend, since it was all online,
anybody could speak, thought that could be detrimental, but with the moderation,
no hateful or ignorant comments saw the light of day. How did you get on this
site? A simple pull request. Anyone can create one, provided they have a Github
account. Sure, that's certainly a small stipulation, but guess what, it really
did spark a flame in my mind.

Moving on a few months, to a more personal experience. My best friend committed
suicide. Not unlike Aaron Swartz, he was a brilliant person. Friendly, loving, I
could go on and on, but there really is no way to describe what kind of person
he was. He was just the kind of person you wanted to be around.

I digress, before I work myself into a moping pile of feelings. I quickly set
about building a memorial to him, reminiscent of the one dedicated to Aaron
Swartz. I even had someone submit a pull request to it to add their own quote
about his life. It was an amazing feeling. Sad, but amazing. It was really the
only thing I could do, since I wasn't even in the same state as him, and
wouldn't have been able to attend his funeral or anything similar on short
notice.

The amazing thing about this memorial is that it isn't limited to those who can
attend. My friend went by the online moniker of "w1n5t0n", a character out of
Little Brother by [Cory Doctorow](<http://craphound.net>), one of his favorite
authors. He didn't know him, but I reached out to Cory, and he said some of the
most beautiful things that I've ever heard. If it had been a traditional, there
would be no Cory Doctorow, speaking to the memory of someone he knew in no way
other than a brief conversation, and an email from a total stranger. That speaks
volumes to Cory Doctorow's character, but I'm going off topic again.

The future seems to be leaning towards digitizing everything. Recently, even
memorials and funerals could be digitized. Of course, not in the traditional
sense, but rather the spirit of remembrance could be translated to an online
version. Freedom for everyone to see it.

There are some issues with this, the number one issue being trolls and spammers,
which sadly still plague the internet, but it's just a fact of life. A moderated
discussion platform, or pull requests, could sufficiently serve to control
access to keep everything on topic. A spirit of family, and the remembrance of
someone lost could potentially turn the open source funeral into a beautiful,
blossoming festival of remembrance of someone amazing. I don't know what else I
can say on the matter asides from the response to both Aaron's, and w1n5t0n's
were overwhelmingly positive. The latter on a smaller scale, but I sincerely
believe that the open source funeral could be the best vehicle for remembering
someone who's been lost. Better than a blog post, better than a funeral even.
Especially for those who loved the open source community as dearly as w1n5t0n
and Aaron Swartz did. The vibrance they created, the life they breathed into it,
perhaps they changed the world in some imperceptible way, or in some
immeasurable way. Either way, it serves to remember those who have made the
world a better place simply for their existence.
